Update 0072-SPPW-spam-protection-PoW.md (#1415)
vegaprotocol/specs: protocol/0072-SPPW-spam-protection-PoW.md

  (i.e., if `spam.pow.increaseDifficulty` is `> 1`, the same block can be used for more transactions if the PoW accordingly increases in difficulty).
 
 Violations of the latter rules cannot lead to a transaction being removed, as different validators have a different view on 

>  this; however, they can be verified post-agreement, and the offending vega-key can be banished for 5 minutes; this is measured starting at the blocktime in which the violation occurs, and transactions are allowed again in the first block after. Validators should return a meaningful error message to the wallet to let it know that/why a transaction got rejected.

Reviewer: I think we agreed on 30 minutes not 5?

Author: Yes, this part was made before (and before Tom made the changes to the same end), so this change can be deleted

- Linking too many transactions to the same block is detected and leads to a blocking of that account (if the increasing difficulty is turned of) (<a name="0072-SPPW-003" href="#0072-SPPW-003">0072-SPPW-003</a>)
- Linking too many transactions with a low difficulty level to a block is detected and leads to blocking of the account (if increasing difficulty is turned on) (<a name="0072-SPPW-004" href="#0072-SPPW-004">0072-SPPW-004</a>)
- Reusing a transaction identifier in a way that several transactions with the same ID end up in the same block is detected and the transactions are rejected (<a name="0072-SPPW-005" href="#0072-SPPW-005">0072-SPPW-005</a>)

> - A blocked account is unblocked after 5 minutes. For transactions sent in the meantime, a meaningfull error message is returned. (<a name="0072-SPPW-006" href="#0072-SPPW-006">0072-SPPW-006</a>)

Author: Isn't that 1/48 of an epoch now and already in through Tom's cleanup (i.e., should be removed here) ?

Reviewer 2: @Vegaklaus

@claudiumilea and I noticed that in the main branch this still shows as 4 epochs. Ive created https://github.com/vegaprotocol/specs/pull/1480 - I can close this if this PR updates and corrects if its no longer 4 epochs.

- Linking too many transactions with a low difficulty level to a block is detected and leads to blocking of the account (if increasing difficulty is turned on) (<a name="0072-SPPW-004" href="#0072-SPPW-004">0072-SPPW-004</a>)
- Reusing a transaction identifier in a way that several transactions with the same ID end up in the same block is detected and the transactions are rejected (<a name="0072-SPPW-005" href="#0072-SPPW-005">0072-SPPW-005</a>)
- A blocked account is unblocked after 5 minutes. For transactions sent in the meantime, a meaningfull error message is returned. (<a name="0072-SPPW-006" href="#0072-SPPW-006">0072-SPPW-006</a>)
- PoW attached to a valid transaction will be accepted provided it's using correct chain ID and, at time of submission, the block hash is one of the last `spam.pow.numberOfPastBlocks` blocks.  (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-007" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-007">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-007</a>)

- The parameter 'spam.pow.difficulty' is increased.  Verify that

>     - This is communicated to all wallets, and wallets use the new parameter for each transaction tied to a block with a height higher than the one in which the change happened. 

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure whether this one is in scope of spec ACs. It would be the wallet proactively checking that the difficulty has not changed I believe rather than anything the core itself has to do.

Author: I talked with David, and we deleted similar Acs; that said, there should be some test somewhere to assure wallets (in whatever way) notice that the parameters change and adapt, and we don't end up with half an hour of no-one being able to send a meaningful transaction

    - Transactions tied to such a block using the original difficulty are rejected with an error message.
    - The effect of pow.increaseDifficulty is still applied, i.e., a wallet key that had the increased difficulty still has the increased difficulty w.r.t. the new baseline.
    (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-008" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-008">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-008</a>)

- The parameter 'spam.pow.difficulty' is decreased. Verify that

>      - This is communicated to all wallets, and wallets use the new parameter for each transaction tied to a block with a height higher than the one in which the change happened.

Reviewer 3: As above

    - Transactions tied to such a block using the new difficulty are not rejected.
    - The effect of pow.increaseDifficulty is still applied, i.e., a wallet key that had the increasedd difficulty still has the increased difficulty w.r.t. the new baseline.
    (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-009" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-009">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-009</a>)

    - The parameter 'spam.pow.increaseDifficulty' is increased.  Verify that
     - This is communicated to all wallets, and wallets use the new parameter for each transaction tied to a block with a height higher than the one in which the change happened. This requires some wallets to be subjected to a difficulty increase due to too many messages
    - Transactions tied to such a block using insufficient difficulty due to the new parameter are rejected with an error message.
    (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-010" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-010">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-010</a>)

> - The parameter 'spam.pow.increaseDifficulty' is decreased. Verify that

Reviewer 3: `spam.pow.increaseDifficulty` doesn't increase/decrease really, it's a boolean flag for whether the increasing difficulty is active at all (and if disabled then it's just a ban after crossing the limit)

     - This is communicated to all wallets, and wallets use the new parameter for each transaction tied to a block with a height higher than the one in which the change happened.
    - Transactions tied to such a block using the new difficulty are not rejected.
    (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-011" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-011">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-011</a>)

> - The parameter 'spam.pow.numberofTxPerBlock' is decrerased.  Verify that o

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The parameter 'spam.pow.numberofTxPerBlock' is decreased.  Verify that
```

        - The new parameter is communicated to and adapted by the wallets, i.e., if a user has too many transactions according to the new parameter, the wallet does not submit transactions with a too low
 poW difficulty (either by submitting a PoW of higher difficulty, or by submitting the transactions later).

>         - The new parameter addapted for all blocks with a block height higher than the current one, i.e., a number of transactions that was allowed before and is no longer due to the new parameter is rejected (leaving the spam difficulty level constant)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - The new parameter is used for all blocks with a block height higher than the current one, i.e., a number of transactions that was allowed before and is no longer due to the new parameter is rejected (leaving the spam difficulty level constant)
```

    (<a name="0072-COSMICELEVATOR-013" href="#0072-COSMICELEVATOR-011">0072-COSMICELEVATOR-013</a>)

- Repeat tests 008-013,  where in the same block,
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is increased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is decreased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is increased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is increased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is increased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is increased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is decreased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is decreased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is increased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is decreased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is increased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is increased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is increased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is decreased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is decreased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is increased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is increased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is decreased.
   - Spam.pow.difficulty is decreased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is decreased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is decreased.

>    - Spam.pow.difficulty is decreased and spam.pow.increaseDifficulty is increased, and spam.pow.numberOfTXPerBlock is decreased.

Reviewer 3: We can probably cut these down given that if the enabling of `increaseDifficulty` takes effect the values of `difficulty` and `numberOfTXPerBlock` won't matter
